there's a man by the name of Captain
William Swenson who recently was awarded
the Congressional Medal of Honor for his
actions on September 8 2009 on that day
a column of American and Afghan troops
were making their way through a part of
Afghanistan to help protect a group of
government officials a group of Afghan
government officials who'd be meeting
with some local village elders the
column came under ambush and was
surrounded on three sides and amongst
many other things captain Swenson was
recognized for running into live fire to
rescue the wounded and pull out the dead
one of the people he rescued was a
sergeant and he and a comrade were
making their way to a medevac helicopter
and what was remarkable about this day
is by sheer coincidence one of the
medevac medics happened to have a GoPro
camera on his helmet and captured the
whole scene on camera it shows captain
Swenson and his comrade bringing this
wounded soldier who received a gunshot
to the neck they put him in the
helicopter and then you see captain
Swenson bend over and give him a kiss
before he turns around to rescue more I
saw this and I thought to myself where
do people like that come from what is
that that is some deep deep emotion when
you would want to do that there's
there's a there's a love there and I
want to know why is it that I don't have
people that I work with like that you
know in the military they give medals to
people who willing to sacrifice
themselves that others may gain in
business we give bonuses to people who
are willing to sacrifice others so that
we may gain
yeah honey so I asked myself where do
people like this come from and my
initial conclusion was that they're just
better people that's why they're
attracted to the military these better
people are attracted to this concept of
service but that's completely wrong what
I learned is that it's the environment
and if you get the environment right
every single one of us has the capacity
to do these remarkable things and more
importantly others have that capacity to
I've had the great honor of getting to
meet some of these who we would call
heroes who've put themselves and put
their lives at risk to save others and I
asked them why would you do it why did
you do it and they all say the same
thing because they would have done it
for me it's this deep sense of trust and
cooperation
so trust and cooperation are really
important here the problem with concepts
of trust incorporation is that they are
feelings they're not instructions
I can't simply say to you trust me and
you will I can't simply instruct two
people to cooperate and they will it's
not how it works
it's a feeling so where does that
feeling come from if you go back 50,000
years to the Paleolithic era to the
early days of Homo Sapien what we find
is that the world was filled with danger
all of these forces working very very
hard to kill us nothing personal
whether it was the weather lack of
resources maybe a saber-toothed tiger
all of these things working to reduce
our lifespan and so we evolved into
social animals where we live together
and work together in what I call a
circle of safety inside the tribe where
we felt like we belong and when we felt
safe amongst our own the natural
reaction was trust in cooperation their
inherent benefits to this it means I can
fall asleep at night and trust that
someone from within my tribe will watch
for danger if we don't trust each other
if I don't trust you that means you
won't watch for danger bad system of
survival the modern day is exactly the
same thing the world is filled with
danger things that are trying to
frustrate our lives or reduce our
success reduce our opportunity for
success it could be the ups and downs of
an economy the uncertainty of the stock
market
it could be a new technology that
renders your business model obsolete
overnight or it could be your
competition that is sometimes trying to
kill you it's sometimes trying to put
you out of business but at the very
minimum is working hard to frustrate
your growth and steal your business from
you we have no control over these forces
these are a constant and they're not
going away
the only variable are the conditions
inside the organization and that's where
leadership matters because it's the
leader that sets the time when a leader
makes the choice to put the safety and
lives of the people inside the
organization first to sacrifice their
comforts and sacrifice the tangible
results so that the people remain and
feel safe they feel like they belong
remarkable things happen I was flying on
a trip and I was witness to an incident
where a passenger attempted to board
before their number was called and I
watched the gate agent treat this man
like he had broken the law like a
criminal who was yelled at for
attempting to board one group too soon
so I said something I said why why do
you have to treat us like cattle why
can't you treat us like human beings and
this is exactly what she said to me she
said sir if I don't follow the rules I
could get in trouble or lose my job all
she was telling me is that she doesn't
feel safe all she was telling me is that
she doesn't trust her leaders the reason
we like flying Southwest Airlines is not
because they necessarily hire better
people it's because they don't fear
their leaders you see if the conditions
are wrong we're forced to expend our own
time and energy to protect ourselves
from each other and that inherently
weakens the organization when we feel
safe inside the organization we will
naturally combine our talents and our
strengths and work tirelessly to face
the dangers outside and seize the
opportunities the closest analogy I can
give to what a great leader is it's like
being a parent if you think about what
being a great parent is what do you want
what makes a great parent we want to
give our child opportunities education
discipline them
necessary also that they can grow up and
achieve more than we could for ourselves
great leaders want exactly the same
thing they want to provide their people
opportunity education discipline when
necessary build their self-confidence
give them the opportunity to try and
fail all so that they could achieve more
than we could ever imagine for ourselves
Charlie Kim who's the CEO of a company
called next jump in New York City a tech
company he makes the point that if you
had hard times in your family would you
ever consider laying off one of your
children we would never do it then why
do we consider laying off people inside
our organization
Charlie implemented a policy of lifetime
employment if you get a job at next jump
you cannot get fired for performance
issues in fact if you have issues they
will coach you and they will give you
support just like we would with one of
our children who happens to come home
with a C from school it's the complete
opposite this is the reason so many
people have such a visceral hatred this
can sort of anger at some of these
banking CEOs with their disproportionate
salaries and bonus structures it's not
the numbers it's that they have violated
the very definition of leadership they
have violated this deep-seated social
contract we know that they allowed their
people to be sacrificed that they could
protect their own interests or worse
they sacrificed their people to protect
their own interests this is what so
offends us not the numbers would anybody
be offended if we gave 150 million
dollar bonus to Gandhi how about a two
hundred and fifty million dollar bonus -
mother Teresa do we have an issue with
that
none at all none at all great leaders
would never sacrifice the people to save
the numbers they would sooner sacrifice
the numbers to save the people Bob
Chapman who runs a large manufacturing
company in the Midwest called
barry-wehmiller in 2008 who was hit very
hard by the recession and they lost 30%
of their orders overnight now in a large
manufacturing company this isn't this is
a big deal and they could no longer
afford their lay their labor pool they
needed to save 10 million dollars so
like so many companies today the board
got
together and discussed layoffs and bob
refused you see bob doesn't believe in
head counts bob believes in heart counts
and it's much more difficult to simply
reduce the heart count and so they came
up with a furlough program every
employee from secretary to CEO was
required to take four weeks of unpaid
vacation they could take it anytime they
wanted and they did not have to take it
consecutively but it was how bob
announced the program that mattered so
much he said it's better that we should
all suffer a little than any of us
should have to suffer a lot and morale
went up they saved twenty million
dollars and most importantly as he'd be
expected when the people feel safe and
protected by the leadership in the
organization the natural reaction is to
trust and cooperate and quite
spontaneously nobody expected people
started trading with each other those
who could afford it more would trade
with those who could afford it less
people would take five weeks so that
somebody else only had to take three
leadership is a choice it is not a rank
I know many people at the senior most
levels of organizations who are
absolutely not leaders they are
authorities and we do what they say
because they have authority over us but
we would not follow them and I know many
people who are the bottoms of
organizations who have no authority and
they are absolutely leaders and this is
because they have chosen to look after
the person to the left of them and they
have chosen to look after the person to
the right of them this is what a leader
is I heard a story of some marines who
were out in theater and as is the marine
custom the officer ate last and he let
his men eat first and when they were
done there was no food left for him and
when they went back out in the field his
men brought him some of their food so
that he made because that's what happens
we call them leaders because they go
first
we call them leaders because
take the risk before anybody else does
we call them leaders because they will
choose to sacrifice so that their people
may be safe and protected and so his
their people may gain and when we do the
natural response is that our people will
sacrifice for us they will give us their
blood and sweat and tears to see that
their leaders vision comes to life and
when we ask them why would you do that
why would you give your blood and sweat
and tears for that person they all say
the same thing because they would have
done it for me and isn't that the
organization we would all like to work
in thank you very much
[Applause]